README.md, before:

ICFP is the [International Conference on Functional Programming](http://icfpconference.org/).
The 2013 edition will take place in Boston, from September 25 to September 27.

The list of accepted papers was published [here](http://icfpconference.org/icfp2013/accepted.html). The present page tries to gather preprint links and complementary information; please do not hesitate to submit issues or pull requests.

(See [here](https://github.com/technogeeky/icfp12-paper-links) for a similar page for ICFP'12)

- "Wellfounded Recursion with Copatterns: A Unified Approach to Termination and Productivity"   
  ([paper](http://www.cs.mcgill.ca/~bpientka/papers/icfp13.pdf))
  ([long version](http://www.tcs.ifi.lmu.de/~abel/icfp13-long.pdf)),  
  by Andreas Abel and Brigitte Pientka

- "Productive Coprogramming with Guarded Recursion"   
  ([paper](http://bentnib.org/productive.pdf))
  ([webpage](http://bentnib.org/posts/2013-03-29-productive-coprogramming.html)),  
  by Robert Atkey and Conor McBride

- "Using Circular Programs for Higher-Order Syntax [Functional Pearl]"   
  ([paper](http://www.cse.chalmers.se/~emax/documents/axelsson2013using_DRAFT.pdf)),  
  by Emil Axelsson and Koen Claessen

- "Weak Optimality, and the Meaning of Sharing"   
  (no preprint found),  
  by Thibaut Balabonski

- "Efficient Divide-and-Conquer Parsing of Practical Context-Free Languages"   
  ([paper](http://www.cse.chalmers.se/~bernardy/PP.pdf)),  
  by Jean-Philippe Bernardy and Koen Claessen

- "Type-Theory In Color"   
  ([paper](http://www.cse.chalmers.se/~bernardy/CCCC.pdf)),  
  by Jean-Philippe Bernardy and Guilhem Moulin

- "Programming and Reasoning with Algebraic Effects and Dependent Types"   
  ([paper](http://eb.host.cs.st-andrews.ac.uk/drafts/effects.pdf))
  ([webpage](http://edwinb.wordpress.com/2013/03/28/programming-and-reasoning-with-algebraic-effects-and-dependent-types/)),  
   by Edwin Brady

- "C-SHORe: A Collapsible Approach to Verifying Higher-Order Programs"   
  ([long version](http://www.cs.rhul.ac.uk/~hague/files/papers/icfp13-long.pdf)),  
  by Christopher Broadbent, Arnaud Carayol, Matthew Hague and Olivier Serre

- "A Practical Theory of Language-Integrated Query"   
  ([paper](http://homepages.inf.ed.ac.uk/jcheney/linq/essence-linq.pdf))
  ([webpage](http://homepages.inf.ed.ac.uk/jcheney/linq/)),  
  by James Cheney, Sam Lindley and Philip Wadler

- "The Bedrock Structured Programming System: Combining Generative Metaprogramming and Hoare Logic in an Extensible Program Verifier"   
  (no preprint found)
  ([webpage](http://adam.chlipala.net/papers/BedrockICFP13/)),  
  by Adam Chlipala

- "Modular Monadic Meta-Theory"   
  ([paper](http://ropas.snu.ac.kr/%7Ebruno/papers/3MT.pdf))
  ([webpage](http://www.cs.utexas.edu/~bendy/3MT/)),  
  by Benjamin Delaware, Steven Keuchel, Tom Schrijvers and Bruno Oliveira

- "Hoare-Style Reasoning with (Algebraic) Continuations"   
  ([paper](http://software.imdea.org/~germand/pubs/httcc-ext.pdf))
  ([webpage](http://software.imdea.org/~germand/HTTcc/)),  
  by Germán Andrés Delbianco and Aleksandar Nanevski

- "Typed Syntactic Meta-programming"   
  ([paper](http://people.cs.kuleuven.be/dominique.devriese/icfp002-devriese-authorversion.pdf)),  
  by Dominique Devriese and Frank Piessens

- "Fun with Semirings" [Functional Pearl]   
  (no preprint found),  
  by Stephen Dolan

- "Complete and Easy Bidirectional Typechecking for Higher-Rank Polymorphism"   
  ([paper](http://www.cs.cmu.edu/~joshuad/papers/bidir/Dunfield13_bidir_submitted.pdf))
  ([lemma and proofs](http://www.cs.cmu.edu/~joshuad/papers/bidir/Dunfield13_bidir_submitted_proofs.pdf))
  ([webpage](http://www.cs.cmu.edu/~joshuad/papers/bidir/)),  
  by Joshua Dunfield and Neelakantan R. Krishnaswami

- "Calculating Threesomes, with Blame"   
  (no preprint found),  
  by Ronald Garcia

- "Structural Recursion for Querying Ordered Graphs"   
  (no preprint found),  
  by Soichiro Hidaka, Kazuyuki Asada, Zhenjiang Hu, Hiroyuki Kato and Keisuke Nakano

- "Unifying Structured Recursion Schemes"   
  ([paper](http://www.cs.ox.ac.uk/people/jeremy.gibbons/publications/urs.pdf)),  
  by Ralf Hinze, Nicolas Wu and Jeremy Gibbons

- "Testing Noninterference, Quickly"   
  ([paper](http://research.microsoft.com/en-us/people/dimitris/safeqc-picopaper.pdf))
  ([long version](http://www.crash-safe.org/sites/default/files/testing-noninterference-draft-full_0.pdf)),  
  by Catalin Hritcu, John Hughes, Benjamin C. Pierce, Antal Spector-Zabusky, Dimitrios Vytiniotis, Arthur Azevedo de Amorim and Leonidas Lampropoulos

- "Functional Reactive Programming with Liveness Guarantees"   
  ([paper](http://ect.bell-labs.com/who/ajeffrey/papers/icfp13.pdf)),  
   by Alan Jeffrey

- "Correctly Optimizing Abstract Abstract Machines"   
  ([paper](http://www.ccs.neu.edu/home/ianj/coaam-draft.pdf))
  ([arxiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.3722))
  ([implementation and updated paper](https://github.com/dvanhorn/oaam)),  
  by J. Ian Johnson, Nicholas Labich, Matthew Might and David Van Horn

- "Handlers in Action"   
  ([paper](http://homepages.inf.ed.ac.uk/slindley/papers/handlers-draft-march2013.pdf)),  
  by Ohad Kammar, Sam Lindley and Nicolas Oury

- "A Nanopass Framework for Commercial Compiler Development" [Experience Report]   
  (no preprint found),  
  by Andrew Keep and R Kent Dybvig

- "Higher-Order Functional Reactive Programming without Spacetime Leaks"   
  ([paper](http://www.mpi-sws.org/~neelk/simple-frp.pdf))
  ([long version](http://www.mpi-sws.org/~neelk/simple-frp-techreport.pdf))
  ([implementation (.tgz)](http://www.mpi-sws.org/~neelk/adjs-0.1.tgz)),  
  by Neelakantan Krishnaswami

- "Modular and Automated Type-Soundness Verification for Language Extensions"   
  ([paper](http://erdweg.org/publications/soundext-icfp13.pdf)),  
  by Florian Lorenzen and Sebastian Erdweg

- "Exploiting Vector Instructions with Generalized Stream Fusion"   
  ([paper](http://research.microsoft.com/en-us/um/people/simonpj/papers/ndp/haskell-beats-C.pdf)),  
  by Geoffrey Mainland, Roman Leshchinskiy and Simon Peyton Jones

- "Functional Geometry and the «Traité de Lutherie»" [Experience Report]   
  (no preprint found),  
  by Harry Mairson

- "Optimising Purely Functional GPU Programs"   
  ([paper](http://www.cse.unsw.edu.au/~chak/papers/acc-optim.pdf))
  ([webpage](http://www.cse.unsw.edu.au/~chak/papers/MCKL13.html)),  
  by Trevor L. McDonell, Manuel Chakravarty, Gabriele Keller and Ben Lippmeier

- "A Short Cut to Parallelization Theorems"   
  (no preprint found),  
  by Akimasa Morihata

- "Functional Programming of mHealth Applications" [Experience Report]   
  (no preprint found),  
  by Christian Petersen, Matthias Gorges, Dustin Dunsmuir, Mark Ansermino and Guy Dumont

- "Automatic SIMD Vectorization for Haskell"   
  (no preprint found),  
  by Leaf Petersen, Dominic Orchard and Neal Glew

- "Programming with Permissions in Mezzo"   
  ([paper](http://gallium.inria.fr/~fpottier/publis/pottier-protzenko-mezzo.pdf))
  ([long version](http://gallium.inria.fr/~fpottier/publis/mezzo-icfp2013-long.pdf))
  ([webpage](http://gallium.inria.fr/~protzenk/mezzo-lang/)),  
  by  Francois Pottier and Jonathan Protzenko

- "Correctness of an STM Haskell Implementation"   
  ([long version](http://www.ki.informatik.uni-frankfurt.de/papers/frank/frank50v2.pdf)),  
  by Manfred Schmidt-Schauss and David Sabel

- "The Constrained-Monad Problem"   
  ([paper](http://www.ittc.ku.edu/~neil/papers_and_talks/constrained-monad-problem.pdf))
  ([webpage](http://www.ittc.ku.edu/csdl/fpg/papers/Sculthorpe-13-ConstrainedMonad.html)),  
  by Neil Sculthorpe, Jan Bracker, George Giorgidze and Andy Gill

- "Applying Random Testing to a Base Type Environment" [Experience Report]   
  (no preprint found),  
  by Vincent St-Amour and Neil Toronto

- "Simple and Compositional Reification of Monadic Embedded Languages" [Functional Pearl]   
  ([paper](http://www.cse.chalmers.se/~joels/writing/bb.pdf)),  
  by Josef Svenningsson and Bo Joel Svensson

- "Verified Decision Procedures for MSO on Words Based on Derivatives of Regular Expressions" [Functional Pearl]   
  ([paper](http://home.in.tum.de/~traytel/papers/mso/mso.pdf))
  ([webpage](http://home.in.tum.de/~traytel/papers/mso/index.html)),  
  by Dmitriy Traytel and Tobias Nipkow

- "Unifying Refinement and Hoare-Style Reasoning in a Logic for Higher-Order Concurrency"   
  ([paper](http://www.mpi-sws.org/~turon/caresl/caresl.pdf))
  ([technical appendix](http://www.mpi-sws.org/~turon/caresl/appendix.pdf)),  
  by Aaron Turon, Derek Dreyer and Lars Birkedal

- "Towards Dependently Typed Haskell: System FC with Kind Equality"   
  ([paper](http://www.cis.upenn.edu/~eir/papers/2013/fckinds/fckinds.pdf)),  
  by Stephanie Weirich, Justin Hsu and Richard A. Eisenberg

- "Mtac: A Monad for Typed Tactic Programming in Coq"   
  ([paper](http://www.mpi-sws.org/~beta/mtac/mtac.pdf))
  ([webpage](http://www.mpi-sws.org/~beta/mtac/)),  
  by Beta Ziliani, Derek Dreyer, Neelakantan Krishnaswami, Aleksandar Nanevski and Viktor Vafeiadis

Commit message:

add a relevant-whitespace comment to help patch authors

README.md, after:

ICFP is the [International Conference on Functional Programming](http://icfpconference.org/).
The 2013 edition will take place in Boston, from September 25 to September 27.

The list of accepted papers was published [here](http://icfpconference.org/icfp2013/accepted.html). The present page tries to gather preprint links and complementary information; please do not hesitate to submit issues or pull requests. Patch authors: please pay attention to the two non-erasable whitespaces required to add a line break after each link.

(See [here](https://github.com/technogeeky/icfp12-paper-links) for a similar page for ICFP'12)

- "Wellfounded Recursion with Copatterns: A Unified Approach to Termination and Productivity"   
  ([paper](http://www.cs.mcgill.ca/~bpientka/papers/icfp13.pdf))
  ([long version](http://www.tcs.ifi.lmu.de/~abel/icfp13-long.pdf)),  
  by Andreas Abel and Brigitte Pientka

- "Productive Coprogramming with Guarded Recursion"   
  ([paper](http://bentnib.org/productive.pdf))
  ([webpage](http://bentnib.org/posts/2013-03-29-productive-coprogramming.html)),  
  by Robert Atkey and Conor McBride

- "Using Circular Programs for Higher-Order Syntax [Functional Pearl]"   
  ([paper](http://www.cse.chalmers.se/~emax/documents/axelsson2013using_DRAFT.pdf)),  
  by Emil Axelsson and Koen Claessen

- "Weak Optimality, and the Meaning of Sharing"   
  (no preprint found),  
  by Thibaut Balabonski

- "Efficient Divide-and-Conquer Parsing of Practical Context-Free Languages"   
  ([paper](http://www.cse.chalmers.se/~bernardy/PP.pdf)),  
  by Jean-Philippe Bernardy and Koen Claessen

- "Type-Theory In Color"   
  ([paper](http://www.cse.chalmers.se/~bernardy/CCCC.pdf)),  
  by Jean-Philippe Bernardy and Guilhem Moulin

- "Programming and Reasoning with Algebraic Effects and Dependent Types"   
  ([paper](http://eb.host.cs.st-andrews.ac.uk/drafts/effects.pdf))
  ([webpage](http://edwinb.wordpress.com/2013/03/28/programming-and-reasoning-with-algebraic-effects-and-dependent-types/)),  
   by Edwin Brady

- "C-SHORe: A Collapsible Approach to Verifying Higher-Order Programs"   
  ([long version](http://www.cs.rhul.ac.uk/~hague/files/papers/icfp13-long.pdf)),  
  by Christopher Broadbent, Arnaud Carayol, Matthew Hague and Olivier Serre

- "A Practical Theory of Language-Integrated Query"   
  ([paper](http://homepages.inf.ed.ac.uk/jcheney/linq/essence-linq.pdf))
  ([webpage](http://homepages.inf.ed.ac.uk/jcheney/linq/)),  
  by James Cheney, Sam Lindley and Philip Wadler

- "The Bedrock Structured Programming System: Combining Generative Metaprogramming and Hoare Logic in an Extensible Program Verifier"   
  (no preprint found)
  ([webpage](http://adam.chlipala.net/papers/BedrockICFP13/)),  
  by Adam Chlipala

- "Modular Monadic Meta-Theory"   
  ([paper](http://ropas.snu.ac.kr/%7Ebruno/papers/3MT.pdf))
  ([webpage](http://www.cs.utexas.edu/~bendy/3MT/)),  
  by Benjamin Delaware, Steven Keuchel, Tom Schrijvers and Bruno Oliveira

- "Hoare-Style Reasoning with (Algebraic) Continuations"   
  ([paper](http://software.imdea.org/~germand/pubs/httcc-ext.pdf))
  ([webpage](http://software.imdea.org/~germand/HTTcc/)),  
  by Germán Andrés Delbianco and Aleksandar Nanevski

- "Typed Syntactic Meta-programming"   
  ([paper](http://people.cs.kuleuven.be/dominique.devriese/icfp002-devriese-authorversion.pdf)),  
  by Dominique Devriese and Frank Piessens

- "Fun with Semirings" [Functional Pearl]   
  (no preprint found),  
  by Stephen Dolan

- "Complete and Easy Bidirectional Typechecking for Higher-Rank Polymorphism"   
  ([paper](http://www.cs.cmu.edu/~joshuad/papers/bidir/Dunfield13_bidir_submitted.pdf))
  ([lemma and proofs](http://www.cs.cmu.edu/~joshuad/papers/bidir/Dunfield13_bidir_submitted_proofs.pdf))
  ([webpage](http://www.cs.cmu.edu/~joshuad/papers/bidir/)),  
  by Joshua Dunfield and Neelakantan R. Krishnaswami

- "Calculating Threesomes, with Blame"   
  (no preprint found),  
  by Ronald Garcia

- "Structural Recursion for Querying Ordered Graphs"   
  (no preprint found),  
  by Soichiro Hidaka, Kazuyuki Asada, Zhenjiang Hu, Hiroyuki Kato and Keisuke Nakano

- "Unifying Structured Recursion Schemes"   
  ([paper](http://www.cs.ox.ac.uk/people/jeremy.gibbons/publications/urs.pdf)),  
  by Ralf Hinze, Nicolas Wu and Jeremy Gibbons

- "Testing Noninterference, Quickly"   
  ([paper](http://research.microsoft.com/en-us/people/dimitris/safeqc-picopaper.pdf))
  ([long version](http://www.crash-safe.org/sites/default/files/testing-noninterference-draft-full_0.pdf)),  
  by Catalin Hritcu, John Hughes, Benjamin C. Pierce, Antal Spector-Zabusky, Dimitrios Vytiniotis, Arthur Azevedo de Amorim and Leonidas Lampropoulos

- "Functional Reactive Programming with Liveness Guarantees"   
  ([paper](http://ect.bell-labs.com/who/ajeffrey/papers/icfp13.pdf)),  
   by Alan Jeffrey

- "Correctly Optimizing Abstract Abstract Machines"   
  ([paper](http://www.ccs.neu.edu/home/ianj/coaam-draft.pdf))
  ([arxiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.3722))
  ([implementation and updated paper](https://github.com/dvanhorn/oaam)),  
  by J. Ian Johnson, Nicholas Labich, Matthew Might and David Van Horn

- "Handlers in Action"   
  ([paper](http://homepages.inf.ed.ac.uk/slindley/papers/handlers-draft-march2013.pdf)),  
  by Ohad Kammar, Sam Lindley and Nicolas Oury

- "A Nanopass Framework for Commercial Compiler Development" [Experience Report]   
  (no preprint found),  
  by Andrew Keep and R Kent Dybvig

- "Higher-Order Functional Reactive Programming without Spacetime Leaks"   
  ([paper](http://www.mpi-sws.org/~neelk/simple-frp.pdf))
  ([long version](http://www.mpi-sws.org/~neelk/simple-frp-techreport.pdf))
  ([implementation (.tgz)](http://www.mpi-sws.org/~neelk/adjs-0.1.tgz)),  
  by Neelakantan Krishnaswami

- "Modular and Automated Type-Soundness Verification for Language Extensions"   
  ([paper](http://erdweg.org/publications/soundext-icfp13.pdf)),  
  by Florian Lorenzen and Sebastian Erdweg

- "Exploiting Vector Instructions with Generalized Stream Fusion"   
  ([paper](http://research.microsoft.com/en-us/um/people/simonpj/papers/ndp/haskell-beats-C.pdf)),  
  by Geoffrey Mainland, Roman Leshchinskiy and Simon Peyton Jones

- "Functional Geometry and the «Traité de Lutherie»" [Experience Report]   
  (no preprint found),  
  by Harry Mairson

- "Optimising Purely Functional GPU Programs"   
  ([paper](http://www.cse.unsw.edu.au/~chak/papers/acc-optim.pdf))
  ([webpage](http://www.cse.unsw.edu.au/~chak/papers/MCKL13.html)),  
  by Trevor L. McDonell, Manuel Chakravarty, Gabriele Keller and Ben Lippmeier

- "A Short Cut to Parallelization Theorems"   
  (no preprint found),  
  by Akimasa Morihata

- "Functional Programming of mHealth Applications" [Experience Report]   
  (no preprint found),  
  by Christian Petersen, Matthias Gorges, Dustin Dunsmuir, Mark Ansermino and Guy Dumont

- "Automatic SIMD Vectorization for Haskell"   
  (no preprint found),  
  by Leaf Petersen, Dominic Orchard and Neal Glew

- "Programming with Permissions in Mezzo"   
  ([paper](http://gallium.inria.fr/~fpottier/publis/pottier-protzenko-mezzo.pdf))
  ([long version](http://gallium.inria.fr/~fpottier/publis/mezzo-icfp2013-long.pdf))
  ([webpage](http://gallium.inria.fr/~protzenk/mezzo-lang/)),  
  by  Francois Pottier and Jonathan Protzenko

- "Correctness of an STM Haskell Implementation"   
  ([long version](http://www.ki.informatik.uni-frankfurt.de/papers/frank/frank50v2.pdf)),  
  by Manfred Schmidt-Schauss and David Sabel

- "The Constrained-Monad Problem"   
  ([paper](http://www.ittc.ku.edu/~neil/papers_and_talks/constrained-monad-problem.pdf))
  ([webpage](http://www.ittc.ku.edu/csdl/fpg/papers/Sculthorpe-13-ConstrainedMonad.html)),  
  by Neil Sculthorpe, Jan Bracker, George Giorgidze and Andy Gill

- "Applying Random Testing to a Base Type Environment" [Experience Report]   
  (no preprint found),  
  by Vincent St-Amour and Neil Toronto

- "Simple and Compositional Reification of Monadic Embedded Languages" [Functional Pearl]   
  ([paper](http://www.cse.chalmers.se/~joels/writing/bb.pdf)),  
  by Josef Svenningsson and Bo Joel Svensson

- "Verified Decision Procedures for MSO on Words Based on Derivatives of Regular Expressions" [Functional Pearl]   
  ([paper](http://home.in.tum.de/~traytel/papers/mso/mso.pdf))
  ([webpage](http://home.in.tum.de/~traytel/papers/mso/index.html)),  
  by Dmitriy Traytel and Tobias Nipkow

- "Unifying Refinement and Hoare-Style Reasoning in a Logic for Higher-Order Concurrency"   
  ([paper](http://www.mpi-sws.org/~turon/caresl/caresl.pdf))
  ([technical appendix](http://www.mpi-sws.org/~turon/caresl/appendix.pdf)),  
  by Aaron Turon, Derek Dreyer and Lars Birkedal

- "Towards Dependently Typed Haskell: System FC with Kind Equality"   
  ([paper](http://www.cis.upenn.edu/~eir/papers/2013/fckinds/fckinds.pdf)),  
  by Stephanie Weirich, Justin Hsu and Richard A. Eisenberg

- "Mtac: A Monad for Typed Tactic Programming in Coq"   
  ([paper](http://www.mpi-sws.org/~beta/mtac/mtac.pdf))
  ([webpage](http://www.mpi-sws.org/~beta/mtac/)),  
  by Beta Ziliani, Derek Dreyer, Neelakantan Krishnaswami, Aleksandar Nanevski and Viktor Vafeiadis
